Dear Teacher, I
respectfully ask you a question: While
I was meditating today, I did
n't have any thoughts or ideas
arising in my mind, but I still kept having
images. Specifically,
when I went barefoot with two other people,
images of monks going on alms rounds kept appearing. Secondly,
images from this afternoon, when I was
sitting nearby,
I could clearly see them,
like a movie playing
in my head. And a third image, a longing, a
desire to practice
going to the Heavenly City regularly every day, that is, I didn't want to
exert myself. In total, I
had 39 images
like a piglet. Teacher, are these considered
delusions? And what should I do?
How can we control ourselves so that we don't
generate so many images
anymore? Dear fellow practitioners,
we should never have
this kind of mind. Because we are just beginning our practice, we shouldn't let our minds give
rise to a mind of
afflictions. If we let our thoughts wander, we will
create afflictions like those of other
practitioners. These wandering thoughts only disappear when
we focus on the Dharma and accumulate sufficient merit.
Those who practice
shouldn't be like this: walking at the bottom of a slope
and constantly feeling impatient, wondering when we
will reach the top. It means
we are following the right method, and
that's enough. So, when you are
meditating and those thoughts arise,
just think of them as belonging to you, as
wholesome thoughts. That is, when
you discover you have wandering thoughts,
you are already awake, aware, and have cleared away the
impurities. And when you can distinguish them, you see
that within your wandering thoughts there are
many wholesome thoughts. That is, you are
observing your own karma, and it is
inclined towards goodness. That is joy,
dear fellow practitioners. We  When we practice walking
meditation, letting go of many good thoughts,
our minds become more inclined towards goodness.
That's joy, but it's not the end of all thoughts.
Never dwell on the mind when you
have good or bad thoughts in your heart.
Oh, and the sea of ​​thoughts too! The old man was
thinking, "Oh, why do I have so many thoughts?" "That
's another thing, another source of
trouble!"
He then dismissed
these troublesome thoughts and simply
recognized them. He thought, "This is a good thought,
this is a bad thought." He
had to eliminate these bad thoughts.
Remember, because we are practicing the Four Noble Truths. Evil is destroyed, evil is eliminated, good grows. Good
must be done
step by step.
Remember, we must take it one step at a time.
Otherwise, it will lead to greed for the
Dharma, and after greed, ultimately
dissatisfaction with the Dharma, which means dissatisfaction with oneself.
Not practicing takes so long, right? The benefit of being stuck in a rudimentary state is that you ca
n't cultivate it anymore, it's so tiring. All day long, you
see thoughts like
this, when will you ever get there? Well, just think of it, so you don't have to
start a rebellion. Because when you
get to the realm of thoughts, it's all reversed.  The
afflictions don't gather anymore, but you just wait for
them to weaken, let them keep arising, just keep
looking at them, keep looking at them, and gradually they will disappear on their own,
but there's a path, you know.
Those unwholesome thoughts, we let them go, those wholesome thoughts remain, okay?
That's jealousy.
Keep doing that, keep doing it until good things come, then
it will gradually fall away, the structure will crumble, we'll keep following them
like this, it's not yet the result of diligent
practice. Is that so? Yes, yes.
[Music]
[Applause]
Yes,yes.